So let me hit record.
Cool. So I'll go ahead and share my screen.
Alright.
There we go. Okay, so. In Jobs Sweden synthesis we're just going to review a few things and then at the end we're going to go through a few exercises and then I'll show you what great looks like.
So that's our agenda here. Neil, if you wanna call out questions in the chat, that would be awesome.
Sure.
So what we're expecting in week 5 is one to 3 synthesized jobs to be done statements.
And the key here is that each supported by detailed evidence. You'll hear us reference your synthesis of God to be done as your why before the why or your why behind the why people use both words that is because Jason Freed coined that phrase when he had Bob Mesta, Neil and a few others do jobs to be done with him, which we hint to that in one of our first lectures.
And he wrote up a blog post. I'm going to show you later called the why behind the line.
The whole purpose of that was to synthesize everything that he noticed and then put it into clusters.
So people call Jabs to be done synthesis. They call it clustering. They call it the Y behind the Y.
They call it analysis and then the next phase after this that you'll hear people talk about is implications and prototyping.
So you're making your synthesis now and then it's like, what does that mean for your business?
And if you get through your why behind the line. And it's amazing and you're ready to move forward.
Yeah.
And you finish that to do list that's in base camp, you actually unlock an implications and prototyping session with Neil.
Which we've done with a few founders and it's 2 h. We really get into the nitty gritty of what this means for your business, what changes you should make, what experiments you should run.
And that is where the real magic happens. That's how it can directly inform your roadmap.
On both product and marketing like we talked about. So what is it mean, each supported by detailed evidence?
And honestly, what does it mean synthesized JTVD statements? So for the evidence piece for each of your jobs to be done statements that are synthesized, so clusters, you're going to identify clusters and write.
A statement, an aggregated statement based on the patterns that you've seen. And we're going to get into that today.
But each one will be supported by the following evidence. You're 4 forces summary. The motivations behind it.
Competitors for this specific segment. So what is this current this group currently use to solve this struggle? And quotes.
Yeah.
It's very important to support. Every proposed JTV statement with actual quotes from interviews. I complemented a few of you in your checkpoint presentations because some of you actually used quotes already without being told, which was awesome.
The best data you can use as evidence are the words of your actual customers that you interviewed or whoever you interviewed even if they were not your customers.
Competitors. Let's think back to the milkshake video, something that Clay Christians says in the milkshake video.
You'd be surprised, but the things that the person hired other than the milkshake was not something else that we would classify as like a traditional dessert.
It was a banana. It was a bagel and cream cheese. It was things like that.
That's why it's really important to put the competitors for what people are currently using in this specific segment.
And you see in this, this is the face.
Sorry, I'm meeting people. Okay. You're also going to include a 4 forces summary.
And the motivation summary. And we'll go over this today just to refresh.
So refresh number one, this is the formal jobs to done statement. When I, I want to so I can't.
A couple of call-outs here. The when I should be extremely specific. I think in the checkpoint, some feedback that I have for everyone here is everyone's when could be a lot more.
Could be a lot stronger, really set us in that specific circumstance that your customer is in. Of course, when you aggregate them, when you come up with a conglomeration and make a statement for that cluster where you've identified a pattern, it will inherently be a little bit more high level.
And that's okay. You'll see that today. But I want to. This is huge because there's really no excuse here even in the clustering that I want to should not magically have your product spotted in there.
Your customers that you interview. Or your non customers whoever you're interviewing you really shouldn't have been discussing your product at all.
So if they're feeding words that are clearly from your mouth describing your product, we can tell that it's kind of like a biased interview.
The i 1 statement should be in their words what progress they want to make. And then that's their motivation.
And so I can. That's the expected outcome. What is the end state? That one is pretty self-explanatory.
A lot of you got that, right? Let's go over the forces. So a few mistakes I saw in the checkpoints were that not everybody.
Made the forces in the directions that they go. So push and pull are forces that are driving the interviewee toward the switch moment toward the new solution.
Anxieties and habits are pulling them away from that new solution and keeping them in the old way or the status quo.
So I saw some people write some habits or anxieties that were like moving the person toward the new solution.
Those are actually just pushes and pulls. Habits and anxieties are things that keep them from the new solution.
So if you wrote something that they were like worried about in anxieties that they were worried about for the old solution, that's really just a push.
Because anxieties are things that they're worried about with a new solution. Does anyone have questions about the forces?
Cause those were the main issues I saw in the checkpoint.
Can you maybe rephrase that one? Cause I agree with you. That was kind of like one of my misunderstandings.
I know I still don't even have you explained it. Yeah, you're in a different way.
Yeah, absolutely. So and thanks for asking, because I'm sure other people have that question too.
So let's give an example. We were talking about. Switching cars. So I'm gonna switch from just a regular Toyota Ultima Sedan to a Tesla.
What are the forces behind that? Let me make some up. One push could be that my car is broken.
My car does not work and so I'm looking and actively looking for a new car. One poll might be that all my friends have Tesla's or like I really follow the test full brand on social media and I think it's super cool.
Another poll could be like Trevor's. I want to be better for the environment. That is a pull because I'm not feeling a pain that is in a lure of a better life, a better version of myself that I'm chasing.
Those are pushes and poles. An example of what actually I'll tell you what to do and I'll tell you what not to do.
I think that would help. So the correct way to do have it and anxiety. One habit maybe I'm used to using gasoline.
I feel extremely, this is actually me. I feel like I don't know where the charges would be.
I'm not really sure how to do that. I live in an apartment that's kind of old.
I don't really think they have charges in the garage. I don't even know where to start with that.
I don't want a Tesla. Old way. Anxiety, price, right? Tesla's are expensive.
I don't know if I could shell that out. Maybe I could buy a used one, but like honestly, just looking at the sticker price of the Tesla, I feel extremely anxious.
I'm gonna just buy the used. Ultima of the next year or something like instead of getting a Tesla my car is still broken but I'll just get like a used car that's more similar to my card because I don't wanna pay all that money.
That's correct. What would be incorrect in this situation would be saying I have it or anxiety that is actually pushing you away from the old solution and toward the new solution.
So if I had any anxiety about the planet dying if I had an anxiety about like wanting to be better for the climate, that is incorrect.
Because that would be pushing me toward the Tesla. But an anxiety inherently like as a force moves you away from the new solution.
So you should revisit that and like think twice because that would actually be a pull. Does that make more sense?
Yeah, that actually really helps. So like the one good example, you mentioned like the charging and I have a test like range anxiety the idea that like I don't know if there's gonna be torture in Tahoe for instance is like a big one right is that actually anxiety in this framework?
Is that pushing you forward or away from the switch moment?
Yes.
I think it moves you towards the old way because if you if you worry about there being a chart I'm pretty sure it's moving you back to It's like I'm just going to use a normal gasoline car so it is the correct direction I just wanted to like.
That they.
Yep, I was asking you as a quiz. That's exactly right.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
It's moving toward the old solution, so that is in fact an anxiety. And remember, these are just titles that we give to the forces, but it's important to keep the correct direction.
Or else you're analyzing the forces in the incorrect manner.
Make sense.
Yeah.
Lilian, can we go back one slide to the formula you shared? Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that the point you made about the motivation piece in the middle here is made abundantly clear.
Because I don't think we've ever had a time where we've said it. In this forum and we don't end up seeing the thing that you're cautioning people not to do still translate in their statements.
So I guess. I just want to make it clear like it's that we saw the trap happen like half of the time.
When you all presented a week and a half ago. So the trap is you're putting in the features and functionality of your solution as the motivation of the customer statement.
So just repeating what Liana said. Make sure that it goes well beyond. You using your own words to describe what you think the customer is saying that they need and instead either using their word.
For understanding as hard as you possibly can. Clearly, as you possibly can, and their underlying motivation.
Why they want to move forward. With making progress towards that outcome that may or may not include. References to the functionality in your solution.
But just be really clear that you don't go into that track.
There would be a coincidence if it did reference functionalities in your solution, not them specifically naming it because they know what your product does.
The whole point of that is just bias. Like we don't want to introduce bias and that's why we're telling you about this trap.
Ali? Oh, both of you. Okay.
Okay. Yes. So, in our case, we don't have a product, right?
So we were interviewing about competitors. And we heard it specifically from many of them. I want a solution that is cheap, that is easy to use, that is simple.
And so as I'm revisiting because you gave me that comment, right? Like you're talking about features.
You're not telling me what they want. I'm trying to revisit it and and think of you know why they want that and it's because they want a profitable business and they are not sure about how many.
Users they're gonna have. Is that the right review to be to be doing?
Yeah, I think for competitors.
It is a little bit different. So the switch moment is them hiring the competitors, is that correct?
Yes.
So things that would be pushing them toward the new solution. The whole purpose of interviewing competitors when you don't have interviewees is you're treating that competitor almost as like it's a proxy for your company.
So it really doesn't change very much in the analysis.
Does that make sense? Can I clarify deeper?
Yes, yes, yes it does. I'm just thinking that they when they speak of specific features that they wanted in the product and that's why and they claim, well, I chose this one over this one because it is easier to use and I knew that my customers would appreciate that.
I see.
So. Is, is that good enough or? Why do you need something that's easy to use for your customer?
Usually not. That's usually not good enough. Yeah, that's usually not good enough.
If somebody says, oh, this is the easier to use. That's not the detail specific or describing like what they're actually like giving up.
So you should ask a little bit more about like what wasn't good enough. About what they were using, where did they get stuck?
What was the issue there? Whenever people use these blanket terms like easier to use. Most of you all have easy to use in one of your quadrants.
As one of your lawyers. Just recognize like how undifferentiated you are by using such high level language and accepting that.
I would employ you to dig deeper as you talk them to understand what they were actually considering as a difference or trade off.
Alex, something that might be helpful is like really digging into the timeline. So it's not just like what were the features that made it easier.
Where were you? What was going on? Like what exactly was the issue and how How did something help you make progress in that moment?
A great example, are you in Team Starboard aware? I think you are, right? Yeah, so if you solve Valeria's presentation, like she gave a great description of a mom carrying a baby going to the post office and having to click through a bunch of different stuff at the post office like she doesn't even have hands she doesn't know how Windows works instead she's on her phone and it's 4
clicks. In the same situation like the next week instead they're using and 4 clicks later she has the same label.
So like that differentiation even if their ship wasn't their company it was a competitor that would tell you so much about the customer.
And informed the way that you would build your product. Yeah.
Last point on this, one trick to help with that, especially the easy to use piece that you mentioned, is just ask them what makes something hard.
So to provide the contract those that you're saying it's easy to be used when is it hard?
Well, the thing you used before, what made that so hard? So just put them in the place where they're describing what the meaning of the words are to them.
Rather than you taking their word for it.
Okay, thank you. That helps a lot of things.
Awesome. Okay, so another thing that we're gonna review. Let me see if I have it right here.
Social, functional and emotional. So we haven't talked about this in a bit, but every single motivation, this is like a second dimension.
So motivations can be pushes polls, habits or anxieties, but there's this other dimension you can plot on there.
Of the customers motivations which are what energy was it was it emotional functional or social and to be clear all 4 of these forces could have functional, social or emotional.
And we named some during the mattress interview. Actually have some that I'll pull up in another slide.
So to be clear, all of them could be any of the 3. This is a separate dimension to think about the energy and the forces.
Social, how others see me. This has anything to do with other people. Social media, the way that they are perceived by a group of people or people in their lives.
Functional, as like another word for physical. That could be like their own body, that could be their space.
Those are usually the major 2. It could also be like something not working like my car literally breaking is functional, but also me being restless in my sleep and like feeling tired is also functional.
And we have emotional, which in my opinion is the strongest one. And emotional is self-explanatory.
It's how I feel.
Let's take Allies. Yeah, David.
Have you seen like any relationship between? These energies and like parts of the, statement like.
Like, is there like a relationship between one to one or is it kinda like emotional could be in any part of the one eye versus what I want to versus so I can I kind of think.
Is that make sense?
These are the, these are all 3, the motivations. So most of these will lie in the when I, sorry, in this I want to.
The when I is the circumstance. And a little bit of this will be in there but just to color the circumstance that I want to part is where these will lie like all 3 of them.
Really. Except for in the one eye when you're setting up the situation sometimes these are relevant details as well.
The So I can part at the end doesn't usually have these motivations. That's much more of like the progress they're trying to make.
No, did you wanna answer that too? That was a really interesting question, David.
Yeah, I was gonna use a fancy word in that I see them as orthogonal. But I know a lot of people like use that word these days.
But I mean it in that. They're, they're independent between the 2, but at the same time relevance in each phase.
Okay.
So even at the with the desired outcome or expected outcome. Think about that, you know, the how other steamy pieces, the really easy one to think about with the example that Liliana used for Tesla, right?
So some people want to. Demonstrate what they have as a form of either status or fitting in socially.
So you can think of, you know, the applicability here can definitely be It's arguable that it's applicable across all 3 buckets.
I think all 3 this and the forces and the jobs to be done statement are all in that relationship that Neil was describing.
Brian?
So I'm just curious, I'm just, there's my malicious intent in my question.
I'm just curious, where does addiction, for example, for is it possible that it falls and the 2 functional and emotional energy?
Like I'm addicted to playing a game for Yeah, addiction.
You said addiction. Yeah. I think it falls in between.
Addition to what?
Addiction to the product, you know, say for example, social media, gaming, etc.
That's interesting.
I think it's largely dependent on the specific situation. So again, here we are in this world of generalizing.
Hmm.
Hmm. Yeah.
Conceptually at a high level. And the whole point of this is to show you how different things can be at the low level, depending on who the person is.
Hmm.
And what the thing is. So I would caution us not to drift too far in conceptualizing categories.
Okay. Hmm. Okay.
Here and instead going for an individual. These forces are at play. To what extent are they play for one person versus enough?
Thank you.
Yeah, cause when you said the word addicted, then you gave examples of what they could be addicted to.
Like all 3 of your examples, in my opinion, would have like laid in 3 different. Social functional or emotional pieces here.
Also, addiction is really also just a switch moment where they're continuing to come back. To said advice or product.
So you can just treat each individual instance. As a higher.
Yeah, but the real trick here is that all 3 of these forces are a play. All the time.
They're just at different levels. Of of importance and severity for any given person.
It's just like the 4 forces, how they're always up, but in different levels. Ali.
Yeah, just to give an example. To see how, you will categorize this, a lot of the therapies we interviewed were talking about you know wanting to have trusted opinions around the product.
Okay.
Before they actually test it or use it. So there's something in the back of that which is, you know, the scientific.
A robustness and recognition in the in the medical community. I was thinking that is both social and functional because they want the device to be reliable.
They don't wanna hurt their patients, but at the same time, it's like, I want to use something that is accepted by the community.
How would you see that?
I see. So functional doesn't have to mean like the efficacy of something. Functional means a lot more like in the space.
The physical world, I would categorize that as mainly social, although there are, I can name things from all 3 from what I'm hearing from you.
So that sounds like a situation of one person. We're all 3 apply because all 3 apply for every person with an emphasis on social for that person.
And of course, like there's emotional piece, right? They would don't want to fail their clients functional is like the physical nature of like does this thing work especially because you're dealing with hardware.
And then social, of course, has already been set. So all 3 apply there and yeah, we can identify the emphasis on social.
Yeah, and I have a quick example for functional. It might help color this too. I actually shared this example with Liana during the retreat.
There were some companies at 1 point that were very much outpoken and anti-uber.
For a variety of reasons. At the time they would say, okay, well we're going to support Lyft instead of Uber for expensing, you know, our ride for our employees.
And one of the issues that I saw and identified with that and I actually gave this feedback to one of these companies.
Is where I was living. For safety reasons. The number of Uber. Uber, drivers available.
In the area where I was either getting dropped off for friends and family were. Were much more than left.
So there was a functional limitation towards. Using one tool versus another. Even though for other reasons there was a desire to support one business the functional reality was if you wanted to get a ride to get dropped off in a certain place you had to use Uber.
Bye.
So that's just one quick example.
Mercia, before I take your question, Lisa, in the chat, I would. I would disagree with how you're slotting the forces in certain places.
And I would caution you. There aren't certain places that. Specific forces are supposed to go in the job suite on statement.
So I think if you take it the way that you just wrote it out, it may lead to incorrect JTPD statements.
So I would caution what you wrote, there. Merchant.
Thank you, Jalo, for the unmute. Alright, shout out. So yeah, I was just thinking about the how in our interviews I notice these forces, especially in the anxiety, I mean these energy, sorry, especially in the anxiety side of things.
Like for example, some users were saying, you know, I was afraid of using Cicada because I was worried that my audience would perceive me as being transactional money oriented, not in it for the art.
And other people were saying I was worried that it wouldn't work that the you know the product wasn't going to synchronize March wasn't going to arrive, you know, on time.
So those are, you know, clear representations in my mind of these energies at play in a different quadrant in the anxiety spot.
That's exactly right.
Yeah, that was an example of both social and functional, right?
And a emotional.
Yeah, the first one was social, the second one was functionality. Yeah. Those are 2 separate, 2 separate people.
Yep.
Yeah.
Okay.
That was such a great point, which I'm glad you understand. All 3 of these can be in the bottom 2 quadrants as well.
Thanks. Thanks.
So these are not only motivations pushing you toward the new solution. Richard just gave us a great example of a social and a functional anxiety.
So the anxiety is pushing you toward the status quo. It's almost like you could graph like a 4 by 3 and you could have every single thing that happens to your interviewee could be either social functional or emotional and either have an anxiety push or call.
You could plot it because every single one could be one of these. That was a great call out. Let's have their hand up.
Are you all good?
Yeah, I'm good. It was Mercia. If you want to give that example, I would have had a follow-up question for Neil in regards to like what was the emotional energy from, for that, Uber example he gave us, but it's cool.
Awesome.
Mercia gave us a great example. I mean, he didn't give the emotional part. It was just a function of social energy piece.
Yeah.
Right, but we can deduce, right? What an emotional would be that would move you toward a status quo.
Right. I'm good. Thanks.
Great. Awesome. Kevin?
Yeah, I just wanted to put another perspective just also on the Uber piece. You know, Neil had mentioned about, from the side of obviously the passengers and, you know, like I mentioned in my story at 1 point way back when in the beginning, I actually, when Uber first started work for them.
And I think that one of the things that broke the business model later on was because people were giving aspects to the customer side but not looking it from the driver perspective.
So that created core experiences for the customer. So it was sort of a double-edged sword where it fell into their into their business because drivers then were not making enough earnings from Uber to actually upkeep their cars and maintain their vehicles.
So it gave customers a more poor experience. So I think sometimes, you know, My question is, that when we're doing these jobs to be done, we're focusing on one area, like we're focusing on the restaurants, but I think it's helpful to focus on both areas because you'll get a fuller scope of both areas because you'll get a fuller scope of the picture.
Yeah, and if you remember in W 3, which relates to jobs to be done, I said if you're a marketplace or like if you have 2 sides, either you have different customers versus users or you're just a marketplace straight up and you have 2 sides.
You need to do 2 sets of jobs. The reason we isolate it, Kevin, even though you're exactly correct that it's very important to analyze both sides.
We isolate it because the people on either side have unique motivations then can be studied in a vacuum for each side.
And then for your own like journey and what implications that makes and what changes you make, you must take into account both sides.
But making it unbiased and only doing a set of jobs to be done with one side makes the pattern recognition we're going to talk about so much easier.
So like I would caution pretty much all of you who are 2 sided like you Kevin to not do any implications or changes to your business as a result of the insights that you gain from just one half.
You just have to hold onto those and do the other half.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Great point. Jaila?
Sorry, so just to clarify for marketplaces that are B to B to C, we need to do a second set of jobs to be done for the in the supply side.
Yes, every time you have 2 stakeholders. So there are multiple ways you would have 2 stakeholders.
B 2 b to C being a 2 sided marketplace like Uber, having, your customers and users being 2 different things, which is basically BWC. Like Canvas is a great example of that.
If I were going to make a competitor to Canvas, I would need to be interviewing.
Universities as well as students and users. But I would start with universities.
So for us, because we started going through the understanding your customers checklists on base count, should we just basically duplicate that for supply side and then when we get to both supply and customers completed then we can have a meeting with Neil.
Yeah, because like Kevin said, it's a warning to not make or deduce like what it implies or what implications you should draw from the insights if you're only extracting like analyses from one side.
Okay.
You're gonna leave out a giant set of stakeholders that could. Pressure business.
Right. Okay, thank you.
You have, do you have another question?
Nope, sorry, just forgot to lower my hand.
Okay, All good.
Nelson.
Yeah, I I was just gonna make the point that that's, that's where I'm stuck right now as I need to go reach out to people on the other side of the transaction.
So I'm hoping to. Squeeze in a couple more classes, just based on the complication of the payments framework.
Yeah, well to be clear, I'm glad I'm glad you said that to be clear this synthesis that you're gonna present in week 5.
I'm only expecting that to be from one side. So all of our companies that have to do 2 sets, they usually do the second set during growth month.
So in month 2. So you do not need to finish 2 sides in the next 2 weeks. You just have to analyze the one side that you're doing.
Everyone's just doing one set altogether. And if you have a business model where you need to do a separate set, will assist you during month too.
So you don't have to rush through the second one. Just focus on one side that we chose that you're focusing on as you're learning.
And the second step will go way faster because you're not going to be learning. They'll just know how to do it.
Thanks.
Okay. Alright, I'm assuming you're all good because you lowered your hand. Cool.
Awesome. Okay. So let's go back to the mattress interview. This is a great way for us to talk about like the social functional emotional in terms of the forces.
So who can chat out a push that you remember from the mattress interview from Brian Struckle?
We're going to be talking about the master syndrome basically for the rest of this. So try to jog your memories.
You couldn't sleep.
He couldn't sleep. He was not sleeping. So physical pain. What does that sound like in terms of social functional emotional melting?
Functional.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Let's jump to habit. Have it is pulling you toward status quo.
Can anyone shout out something that was keeping Brian toward status quo?
His sunken cost for the mattress here.
Yeah, sun can cost for the mattress. So is that functional, social or emotional?
Yes.
Probably emotional, right? He feels like he's, he's wedded to that problem or ready to that choice, sorry.
That's exactly right. Cause there's not actually something in the physical world. Here you spent the money and it's not like it's, like a financial issue.
He just feels held to that. That's why it's like a fallacy. So emotional.
A 100%.
You learn to live with it, that's also like pretty emotional. Anxiety. Who can shout out an anxiety that was keeping him from switching to a new actress?
Good to be because he bought it from a family member. And then want, you know, then to fill the certain type of way.
First, like the social.
Yeah. And what is social? Exactly. I would call that social.
So there was there were these social worries that he had because he did business with his uncle. He didn't want to betray him.
So he had an anxiety keeping him from going to that in solution. That's a hundred percent right.
So in those 3, we're gonna do the last one. But in those 3, we just hit 3 different motivations.
Energies of motivation in the social functional emotional with 3 different forces so as everyone seeing how these like crisscross they're kind of like a 4 by 3 diagram if you're into STEM and you wanna visualize it in that way.
Otherwise you can just think of the fact that they all can be anything. Like it's basically a many to many match.
Lastly, poll.
What, what pulled him to the new solution?
It was just
Yeah, I'm in Muta and Mark. Who is that?
It's me, yeah, it's Mark. He was, walking into Costco and he saw the mattress.
Yeah, and what happened?
And the
And then. Do you decided to buy it?
Right. Well, what did he do when he saw it? Do you remember? Exactly in the story, like what was different?
Did he lay on it?
No, he touched it. So he was able to touch it. Remember, he does want to lay on it because he's a German phone, but he was able to touch it and just feel it.
So exactly like Mark saying, he saw it in the store and he was able to feel it. And that was a poll.
Like the fact that Basically all of his fears were mitigated through this pull. It gave him surety.
He felt extremely secure because he was able to try it but it also was alluring that he didn't have to lay on a Germany mattress.
That is a lot of different motivations. If someone want to pick one of the ones we just said and tell me if it's social functional or emotional, maybe Mark, you can unmute again.
So I think the pool is functional. It was just happened in the moment.
Like in this case, it's functional, you mean?
Yes, in this case. This specific case.
Yeah, exactly. I would say that's functional. Like the mattress was literally there in the way that they had it displayed and like advertised.
He didn't have to lay on it, but they had a little thing he could feel. And then like, of course, there's the whole factor that his wife was there, which is completely separate.
And I would say is social. Okay, cool. So that was a great exercise to see how all of these can be different.
And I want you guys to keep that in mind when you're doing your. Synthesis.
So remember these principles, no one through these during jobs speed on part 2, but I just wanna remind everyone I'm gonna fly through these because we have an exercise to get to.
But number one, people buy for their own reasons. So try to leave your assumptions at the door.
Remember that each person is gonna buy for different reasons and all we're trying to do is identify patterns in what they tell us.
Nothing is random and everything is caused. So that's a really good point. Herkening back to what Ally asked, like if they just say it's ease of use or like I don't know it was just there.
There's no such thing as an impulse buy or a random purchase. Everything is caused. So like Bob said in the chat, if not why, when.
That's how you can get it out of people usually.
Principal 3, the struggle creates demand. So really focusing on the energy caused by that struggling circumstance or what Bob Mester calls the struggling moment.
That's where you're gonna find the like context for your job to be done statement. If you don't focus on that struggling moment, you're going to feel lost in the timeline of this person making the purchase.
Okay, and at the end of the day everyone's buying to make progress so we're just trying to identify what progress they're trying to make and how this certain switch helped them make it so that we can replicate that in our own business.
So.
Let's see, this is just a plot of all of the. Okay, let me escape. Let me switch to the next slide.
I plotted everything we just talked about, but you guys got it. Spot on. So what we're gonna do now is we're gonna talk about the mattress interview as if we are doing the analysis.
So I took the liberty of making a job sweet on statement that I feel represents Brian pretty well. It could be better, but this is what we're going to go with.
When my wife calls me out for being cranky after not sleeping well for 5 years, I want to stop tolerating my inadequate mattress and poor sleep so I can give my kids more attention and ease my wife's frustration.
This is what I would assume. Represents Brian. So if I were doing the job speed on checkpoint last week and I'm running a matches company and I interviewed Brian.
This would be something I would have put on the board as one of my statements for an interview I've done.
Bob, please.
I don't know if there's another statement coming or not, but this feels unfairly on selfish or to self lists, I think.
Is that how he came off? Tell me, what did you think of Brian?
Personally, that's my take. I think he has his own motivations. Yeah, I mean, that husband of the year, father of the year.
Well, he talks about that in the in the saving, but also I have my own bias that
Like. He does but like He also like he knows he has good sleep when he travels on sleeps on other mattresses.
He has his own frustrations. He goes through his own, like you said, he buys for his own reasons.
Maybe those reasons are his own social reasons. But he also has his own functional emotional ones too that I don't think are a hundred percent externally motivated Like he's got his own shoulder and back pain, etc.
Yeah, and at the end of the day, you'll have a full force diagram for every single one you do.
It's just what like Neil says, where is the energy? So you can have a different opinion.
A 100% welcome it. When I looked at the force that I would plot for that mattress interview, like I said, had on the last slide, I actually wrote them all out.
The one that I felt was the biggest energy was when the wife called him out. He wasn't willing to do anything without that catalyst and the fact that it was the wife calling him out for being cranky where she's basically like you need to step up.
We're not going to keep having a husband and a father who's like this. It's been like this for 5 years like you need to fix it.
He makes the change. So that's just what I felt was like the most energetic moment of the interview, cause it showed like what catalyzed the change, but he could be more selfish than I'm giving him credit for it.
And I could be analyzing this in like a biased way.
Well, Liliana, I think what they're saying, I think what they're saying is that especially the so I can the expected outcome.
It's very much a. It's it's it's There's there's a total opposite world of that of motivation. Yeah, exactly.
It's a story book version of the. Yeah.
Nice. It's too nice to Brian.
Hey.
Yeah Well, I mean, just Sometimes one could argue you want to give your kids less attention and like maybe The wife frustration isn't as high priority, but like it through your lens that That's being written, which is Yeah.
It's very much me.
It's very Yeah, it's very selfless. Yeah, I think I think if I could be so I think it's what Lilian wants to see in this guy.
Yeah.
There we go.
In Brian. This is 100% true. You are a hundred percent right. I believe in Brian.
And his good will, but I'm dead. This is the funniest reaction I've ever had to this slide.
This is how Brian should behave.
But basically this is a good point that you bring up of is that we all have our own biases.
So maybe strive to be more in the middle and remove your own personal biases, which I clearly didn't in this slide.
Alright.
I think we want to move on but to me personally I feel like this JTVD is more aligned for someone for a therapist or family therapist or something like that because I It's a lot much more going on other than just a bad in sleep, you know, getting good sleep.
Yeah, I appreciate that.
So if this would be for a counselor.
That's true. Yeah.
No, but art at the same time though, think about it. Like if you if you can get this deep even in the form of an ad.
Like why do you think these all these ads exist like that are super, you know, emotional and motive, high level, they're not even speaking to the specifics of the product or service, it's more brand related.
You can use. Insights like this to craft those types of messages and set those kinds of stages. So I agree with you on like this could get deep as therapy, but at the same time, a lot of marketers can leverage these emotional forces and understanding to actually reach a, you know, an audience in a really compelling way.
Gotcha.
That's like when you see a targeted ad that clearly they use your cookies to know more about you and you feel like they know you on an uncomfortable level and the thing they're saying, solves the problem that you exactly have.
If you've ever had that moment, that's exactly what we're trying for. Here, your jobs to be done.
Dan?
I have a question. Is it the old, aligned with the emotional forces? All these 3 statements.
I think the not sleeping well piece is functional. And I think the wife calling him out is social. And him being cranky as emotional.
And then him wanting to give the kids more attention and ease the wise frustration as both social and emotional.
When he talks about inadequate mattress, that's also functional. But the purpose here isn't really to analyze like how great of a statement this is.
I can agree with all of you like we could workshop it and make it better. If anyone wants to give me one, I'll update the slide.
But the purpose is really to show you how to do synthesis. So. Does anyone have questions?
This words, yeah.
Like before I move on, regarding like how to draft this statement. Outside of the veracity of it.
Yeah, Nelson.
What? I mean, I'm wondering, you know, when we when we're trying to encapsulate.
Something like the main takeaway, you know, it feels like we're trying to tap into the strongest energy.
Right, whether that is the functional lack of sleep or whether that's the disruption to the marriage or whatever.
And so, I mean, there is some level of. Subjectiveness, I guess, as we as we look at it, but I think, you know, there could be like 3 candidates, right?
Or 5 candidates like, you know, problems. And we're trying to say like, this is the biggest, right?
Like all the other ones exist, but this is the one that we're gonna go build an ad campaign or like, you know, and so, you know, Just I was just thinking through like how am I gonna evaluate and stuff like well I'll go for the biggest one the most obvious S.
That's, that's very well said. That's exactly what I want from you guys.
So when you're looking at each individual interview on the one person level. What did they express? Where was the energy?
When were they the most passionately speaking? What did they repeat the most times? What was like the biggest move that they made in their lives like caused by?
Those are the things I look for to try and identify. The strongest piece of energy. And like I honestly didn't like analyze this very deeply in the way that you guys need to analyze it super deeply.
So that's why it seems super subjective and like we probably could come up with a more objective statement here.
But for yours, wherever the most energy lives, that's what you want to extract. Because there are a lot of different motivations.
We call them big hires and little hires. And there are like a lot of little hires that you'll identify in your interviews.
But find that big hire to try and identify the patterns. We want the most energy. That's what's going to make people most likely to buy.
So I love the way you said that. So you're going to repeat this process for each interview.
You already have done that for however many you had done up to your checkpoint presentation. So each of you have extracted at least a couple jobs to be done statements for each interview.
I take the liberty of creating a company. So we're all going to be part of my new company called Matrix Stars.
So we're doing that. We did the mattress interview pretend we're Bob and we conducted that with Brian and we did it 6 more times.
So we have a total of 7 interviewees. Of course, it would be better to have 10 to 15, but for the purpose of this exercise, we have.
We repeated this process. We interviewed 6 more people and we came up with job speed on statements for those people.
But first, this was our screening criteria. So when we decided to start this jobs, we can set our screening criteria.
For this round of interviews was. Working Fathers who travel more than 8 weeks out of the year and have bought a mattress in the last 90 days.
This is what we screened. We found 7 people. Brian was one of them. And our learning objective here is really like what direction should we take our new products?
They are trying to come, mattress stars, we as a company were trying to come up with a new product line.
We want to know how to. Market it to people and what the product should be, what features it should have, like what direction does this specific subset of customers we've identified want.
So let's talk to them. What we came up with, interviewing number 2 and it's a little small so you might wanna zoom in on your screen if you can't see this.
Number 2. So Brian was number one. This is the next guy. He's what we came up with for him is what I'm renovating my house and have limited time between long work trips.
I don't want to be bothered with purchasing a new matches for my bedroom. I want to be able to quickly get a mattress that I know works without having to pick it up or try it out.
So I can spend the most time with my family as possible in between those work trips. The next person.
When my limited family time gets trumped by bad flights, I want my kids to get better sleep and be cranky so I can spend more quality time with my wife.
Number 4, when I am fumbling through important meetings at my job, due to headaches and I get home stressed every day.
I want to ensure I get enough sleep throughout the week so I can take my mind off work on the weekends and focus on spending time with my kids.
Number 5, when I get into a fight with my partner and she spends the night on the couch because I'm tossing into turning I want a mattress that helps me avoid waking up so we can both sleep through the night uninterrupted.
So he's waking her up by passing turning they get in a fight she sits on the couch then he buys a new mattress Number 6, when I have a child leave for college and have to adapt to a new empty nasty lifestyle, I want to utilize their old room as a guest room and update their old nineties mattress so I can host my friends and family as I transition into a new life
stage. Lastly, number 7, when my wife is bothered by my snoring and becomes irritable with me, I want something to help me stop snoring so I can strengthen my marriage by letting my wife sleep more peacefully in our shared bed.
So that was a lot. We have 7 total. There are 6 on the board here. What patterns can you guys immediately identify?
Maybe call out like what numbers and tell us how you see it. Dan.
I see a lot of, lot of family, almost all of them except for 4. Except for number 4 all of them are family yeah and social energy and that's a big part of their motivation.
Yeah, and I would go even more specifically, Merchat. Some, are like they're all family except one.
Okay.
Some are his wife, some are his children, right? So it can be even deeper too. Dan?
You're on mute, Dan. Sorry, okay.
And you're muted.
They all have it. They all have a very specific struggling moment.
Oh, okay. Yeah, I'm sorry. So.
Oh, hold on guys. Dan, go ahead.
Yeah, I think it's summarized everything beside the interview. 6 I think it's pretty much like MATTERS is a, FEMALE SAVE, or like NARRATOR SAVER, right?
So, pretty much it's all related to like family member relationship and some point and it's all tied to life.
You know work rest balance right so
Yeah, and it's really interesting that you guys are calling out 6 as like an oddball, cause I actually felt like 6 was extremely similar to another one.
So there are you're gonna see there like a myriad of dimensions that you can analyze the patterns in and just depends what you're seeing.
What you're gonna end up having each of you is one to 3 clusters. It might just be one cluster.
They're all perfectly aligned. All the patterns match 2 or even 3. I wouldn't go more than 3 since we're only doing 10 to 15 interviews.
But you'll see how I decided to make these patterns and you'll see how they differ from some of the stuff you guys are saying right now because we pick out different things.
So there's really no wrong answer. And you guys will be able to go back if you want to change the patterns that you create even in week 5 when you present.
Kelvin?
Yeah, number one to number 4 most of them appears to be very busy with limited time. So that limited time, limited family time keeps coming up.
Yeah. That's a, that's a great pattern here. David?
Yeah, I was just say count what you're saying what number 6 with number 2. I saw like kinda like the renovation or kinda like it was almost like home projects that wanted to be started.
And that
Yeah, I noticed that too. Yeah, go ahead.
Oh no, that was it. That was it. That's what like stick up to me.
That's exactly what stuck out to me from 2 and 6, David. I'm glad you said that.
But do you see how other people saw, to as being the same as a bunch of others and 6 being on a loan island.
So there are many different ways that we could draw patterns here. And there's really no right or wrong answer.
It's just what we decide to go after. Yeah, Neil.
Yeah. And, L, unfortunately I have to jump out. For a call, but I'll just want to say one last thing as you hear from everyone else, which is like literally what you all are doing right now by weighing in and looking at these statements.
Is effectively the process of synthesis that you would do. Both your and like interviews and clustering.
So you have these statements, you're in a room with your team, maybe with me too. We're looking at these statements on a whiteboard or on a visual somehow.
And we're having a discussion of where we're seeing the overlap. This is actually how it works right now.
Like's effectively guiding you all through what the process should be.
See you all tomorrow.
Exactly. Antonio or Ally?
Yeah.
Actually, David, just a little bit confused by introduced 6 because I couldn't see the pattern there as if it was time or what it was.
They wanted a mattress that others talk about quality of sleep this one didn't but now I see the relationship with 2 more like I want this to happen.
In a moment in time.
Yeah, David, did you wanna respond?
Oh no, I had another question.
I wanted to respond.
Yeah, go ahead.
I literally did this with my guest room is my wife and I had an old crappy mattress.
And then we finally bought a house and then we got a new matches for our guest room because we wanted our guests to kind of have like a nice sort of hotel experience when they came to visit like they got their own room they got their own bathroom right next to the kitchen and all that but like the mattress decision was deliberately high quality not just some it's just a guest room.
Cheap piece of junk.
Yeah, I love that. Maybe you are at 2 36. You'll never know. David?
Yeah, how do you go about? Again, like not showing in your feature set when it comes to clustering like I think this is easy for us because none of us are building out mattresses and so it's like Almost so objective, but like.
Any ways that you maybe could like suggest like we put in practice and make sure we're not like Oh, this cluster is the feature I'm building and this cluster is another feature we're already building kind of thing.
It shouldn't be features at all. We're thinking about the circumstances that they're in.
So we're not, do you see that most? Pretty much everyone, everyone who noticed a pattern.
Did not talk about what the person needed. They just talked about the circumstance they were in. So put out of your head all of your own features, what you're trying to build.
Honestly, just pretend like you're not even building anything right now and you're only analyzing the people you talked to.
You're not trying to analyze it in terms of what should tucks do. That comes later.
This is not part of your company. Honestly, you should think of this as a completely separate side project.
That's nothing to do with Tux because we're just learning about the problem space. And when you're clustering, it's really helpful to not think what did the people need.
We're not thinking like, oh, these 3 need this this product or this feature and that's why they should be together.
It's these 2 are in this situation. You even said it, David. You said 2 and 6 are renovating their house or like making changes in their house.
You didn't talk about what they need. So we're not talking about any features. So you already on a good track.
I would just try really hard to Separate, compartmentalize what you know you're building in your business and we're working on the business with this.
This is like a research project. Totally separate. Alright.
So would you say that like it's kinda hard to like not.
Guide them towards. Responses that's like your business. When the tone is already set in the search criteria.
That kind of aligns with your business, you know? And then the questions that you Acts. May.
Be similar like a discovery. Question almost, you know, I kind of struggle with that.
Since me being vulnerable here.
Yeah, let's talk about it. So what was your screening criteria?
It was looking for small business owners or startups. That have recently, off.
Well, have recently, Hired a agency to conduct your first screen round screenings and stuff like that.
So, Yeah, that was it. And it's essentially our business, you know?
Yes, so when you started asking them, were you asking them specifically about their personal experience hiring the thing that they hired?
Did you keep it in a box? I know it's hard, but that's what I wanted to caution.
Okay.
If you start asking questions that would apply to your business, I can. Imagine you're straying away from the timeline of the specific purchase that they made.
Yeah, so allow the questions. We're around like they're experience and like when they did it and why they did it.
But a lot of the responses were a lot of, it was a very professional, right? Like what you may want to hear in a job interview almost and it's like kind of happen to like no I don't wanna hear about that like I wanna hear about like how did it make you feel like how did that impact you personally things like that just to kinda make them really think about like, okay, how did it impact your work life
balance? Where you working, you know, late, things of that nature and trying not to like. Have my biases creep in because I work in this space of recruiting, you know, so it was very challenging for us to kind of like.
Keep it non our product, you know, based questions.
100%. I think, yeah, sorry.
So, No, no, go ahead. I'm sorry.
I think everyone on this call can relate to that. So what you're describing is what people face every single time.
But from what you're saying, it sounds like you guys are on a great track. And the more reps you get in, the more comfortable you'll get with the interviewee, the more you'll be able to get them to open up.
And tell you even more and get past that like formalities stage because I'm sure you guys are nervous too.
I used to be when I was trying to do these interviews and the more natural it becomes for you, the more the person will start opening up.
And then you'll be able to get even deeper. But what you're describing everyone faces. It's really hard to set like get out of our own skin and then like set aside the biases of knowing the business, knowing the space really well.
Setting aside all the assumptions we have, a lot of you have worked in this problem space for a year, if not multiple years.
And now we're going back as if we don't know anything and like playing dumb and trying to reset all of our knowledge.
So thank you for sharing that. Art because I'm pretty sure everyone feels that way. It's completely normal.
It's just a learning curve. This is a brand new thing. I think as you continue doing interviews you'll see even more success.
Does that make sense?
No, yes, it did. It did. Like I literally have to reset my mind. Like I've never lived in the space before.
So it's hard. Yeah, but.
Exactly. Yeah, cause you have these assumptions. But the assumptions were based not on, it wasn't grounded in specific like customer discovery work that we did.
Right, so that's why it's good to go back and address them. I mean, a lot of your assumptions will be correct, but some of them won't be correct.
And those key ones we find that we're incorrect preconceived notions are going to be the thing that makes it breaks your business.
So that's why we start with this.
Got it. Thanks.
Yeah, I wanna say thanks, Art for being vulnerable. I also feel like in my past experience the Do you fall mode I'm in is a lot more analytical.
It seems like you're also the kind of guy who can quickly get to solution when a problem is presented to you.
And I found like the kind of folks who can easily Read between the lines or ask the sorta questions.
To kind of get to the emotional why it's behind the wise like they're giving you the first wise And then getting to the root of the wise, be otherwise, I think that's like a extremely rare skill set, which I think is part of why we're learning how to do it in this framework, but.
One of the things I've taken away when I've gotten coached on this in the past is focusing less on what they say.
And trying to dive deeper on. Little bit of how they're saying it but also asking completely different questions that aren't even getting to the response I want.
There more I mean they're not giving me the sort of like transactional type questions like we know why we're here we know why we're meeting a screen do as like a potential interviewee for a reason but then like the things I really care about are the things behind why you did show up in my criteria how did you get to be qualified on those specific terms and then understanding what's behind those that's like I think
a It's not even like twice as hard as like 3 times harder and so I think it's fair to say We're all gonna struggle with it until we get to some level of proficiency.
But there are people out there and these are like the folks who are like tightens of industry or tightens of sales or stuff who eventually figured out, but I don't think anyone knows it.
By default.
It's really well said, Bob. Thank you both, Art and Bob for sharing. Neil always calls this like a muscle.
So you guys are like working out like in the gym trying to figure out how to do this and like soon the muscle will grow and it'll be much easier.
SPEAKER. One So just stick with it. If everyone could do this and gain like valuable customer insights, then everyone would win.
But startup game is really hard. And it's hard for a reason. And so if we can practice code, I guarantee all of you will be that much more successful.
So are we good to continue with how to cluster? Let me see how we are in time. You're doing well.
Perfect. Okay, so you guys identified some patterns. Here are the patterns I identified and it's not right or wrong.
This is just what I did, but I'm giving you an example walking me through what you're going to do for your business in your set.
So we have our 7. I looked at them. Thought about them, looked at the forces that I had for them and then identified the following clusters.
So I put 2 insects together like we discussed in depth. 3 and 4 I put together and I'll get into why and then 5 and 7.
I arguably could have done just 2 clusters and you'll see. The 2 that could be combined, but in my opinion things were different enough that I could put them in a different one.
It's all about how much you guys want to put together versus like have no common, no differences within your clusters.
It's much easier when you only have a couple of clusters, so I would like air on the side of having like 2 but these are the 3 I came up with so you're going to decide you're going to link them together and then for each cluster you identify you're going to write a conglomerated or an aggregated job speed.
So here are the 3 I came up with. So interview 1 2 3 or 1 3 4. I made when I am having emotional struggles within my children due to lack of sleep.
I want to increase rest by purchasing a new, more comfortable mattress so I can improve the quality of my limited time at home with my family.
So as you can see, I broke up the problems with the children and the problems with the white. But you don't have to if you guys wanted to make that one you could put cluster one and 2 together and 3 could be separate.
So you see how that's kind of subjective and it's up to you. It's much more an art and not a science.
Plus or 2, 5 and 7. When my partner and I disrupt each other's sleep at night and it causes tension in our marriage, I want to update our arrangements specifically to stop this issue.
So I can improve our sleep quality and in turn our relationship. So if we go back to 5 and 7.
5 is when they fought because he tosses and turns at night. 7 is when she was bothered by him snoring.
So they're both kind of like a medical issue that is upsetting the spouse and has not a lot to do with the children.
So in my head I saw those as their own cluster. Why we're going to market to a working father who travels basically my screening criteria, I would think that the cluster to folks would want to see a completely different ad than the cluster one.
But I can also see how they're similar enough where if we wanted to go one layer more vague, they could be together.
Recoster 3, these people fell into by screening criteria just like the others, but they had a completely different circumstance.
So what I came up with for them is when my family is going through a transition or we could even call it like a house transition.
I want a quick and easy way to obtain a comfortable mattress that fits the new requirements of the space.
So I can begin utilizing the new room in line with my family's new requirements as quickly as possible.
A great example here is in the I want if I were building a product if I already knew I wanted to build a product that like helped people decide on what mattress to get in a new space.
Maybe I made a feature where they have like 3 day imaging, you can project the bed in the room and see it.
It would be really tempting to put that here. Like I want an app that will show me the bed in the space so that I don't have to, like guess.
But we didn't do that. There's a reason we didn't because we want to be a lot more unbiased.
We're not inserting what we want to build. We're just talking about what the person wants.
So in this situation, both of those people. One is to be quick, easy. They wanted to fit the space and they want to begin utilizing the new room as fast as possible.
Does anyone have questions about these clusters?
I kinda had one takeaway. Earlier when they were these were all listed top to bottom one of the potentially different ways of clustering that I saw is one is more rare yet important life event-based kids going to college just moving etcetera and others are more social pressure or things that were more likely to tolerate and then eventually run out of patience with.
Hmm.
Oriented like, don't wanna sleep on the couch anymore. Don't wanna annoy my wife because her battery for tolerating snoring is giddy low.
100%.
I thought like maybe there's like a theme there. Maybe I'm thinking too much about AI and machine learning.
Maybe there's something there.
No, I, not at all. I, I think that's completely right. So what would be an example of a marketing implication you could make if we put the enough is enough people together like what would you run?
Yeah, that for that one it'd be more emotional triggering basis like I'd love to I mean I'm not a creative like that I got my immediate company but I'm not a creative in that sense of like coming up with scripts in like a storyboard or anything but like I would imagine someone might.
Put together a scene where You know, they're obviously run out of patients. There's yelling.
It's very emotionally triggering and then it's the beds fault. Something simple like that, but like.
That sort of line up thinking. It's kinda, I don't know if I'm answering your question anymore, honestly.
Yeah, no you are. That was it. So this is great, Bob. But thank you for kind of intellectually sparring with me because this is what you guys should be doing within your team.
When someone presents like, oh, maybe it should be clustered this way. One way I think of it is, well, could I come up with a way to either build the product in a certain way or market to these people in a certain way.
Marketing is easier because it's more intuitive. That would cover everyone in that cluster.
And I think the answer for that, with Bob just give me an answer, is yes. So we could do like 1 3 4.
And 6. No, 1 3, 4, 5, and 7 all together and we could come up with something that would cover them all and be intriguing to them.
So I think that's a very valid cluster. And then you actually clustered. Yeah, go ahead.
Tell me.
Yeah. To your point like the first time I saw this I was doing what you were asking but you caught me off guard because you asked about everything but 2 and 6 and I was primarily thinking about oh you don't be a cool commercial for a mattress company is Kids are going off to college or you just moved in and now it's time to buy a mattress.
I think that's relatable. I'm not saying the other stuff is it, but like it seemed like lower hanging fruit to me.
Yeah, and see, so when you get to here, so you would put 2 and 6 together in cluster 3 anyways, like the same, but you would do it for a different reason.
So maybe your JTVD statement would be a lot more focused around what I'm going through a big life event.
Like I said, through a transition, but maybe we would call it that. And then you would come up with something that would market to them.
It sounds like if this was your company, if you were a mattress stars. You feel that there is a lot more energy in cluster 3 and that's the one you would choose to go after.
So I'm sure a lot of you have the question like, okay, what happens after I have 1, 2, and 3?
So that was awesome, Bob. Thank you for being an example. What happens after I have 1, 2, and 3?
It's up to you guys. What do you want to do? Sometimes there's low hanging fruit.
Sometimes it's, oh, I can easily capture that cluster by making XYZ change or just running this ad.
Sometimes it's, do we wanna just pivot the whole business because cluster one is clearly where the most energy is.
It's morphine. People are like dying to have this solved and we're not currently catering to them.
Cause that's what a lot of our companies have done in the past after John Sweet. They realize there's this cluster that is just screaming to be served so they'll pivot to help them.
It's up to you. Maybe cluster 2 is already who you're serving and you just have better insight.
So now you know how to target them even better. It's completely up to you, but this is the like dashboard of insights I want you guys to have.
And when you do the Y before the Y, each one should be supported by that set of. Evidence.
The 4 forces, the motivation, the current competitors or existing alternatives and the So that's really all I have for you.
I'm gonna give you some examples, but I'll take some questions now. Kristy?
Luanna, when I look at the, I see like the different stages, right?
So There's a couple, no kids, and then they have kids and then then empty nesters.
How do we? How do we factor that in like or does it matter like? Is, is that a factor?
Yeah, remember not to. Well, it's only about circumstance. So it only has it only has merit in as much as the circumstances the same.
Okay.
So the empty nesters are actually going with a guy that has a whole family. But he just happens to be renovating his house because the situations actually line up perfectly.
They both have this extra room that they want to furnish with the mattress. It has nothing to do with the demographic of being like an older couple younger couple.
Thank you.
Do I have kids? Do I not have kids? Those 2 like Bob. Said he can think of a commercial that perfectly markets to those 2 guys even though they're in completely different life stages.
They're in the same circumstance.
Ali?
Yeah, so, for those of us who are b 2 b to C, so we need to do different.
Stakeholders. I understand that, you know, we can start thinking of features or ads or kind of like redirectioning, but for any pivot my intuition tells me I need to study all the stakeholders rather than just rush into.
Making people we thought all of that what would be the advice there
Yeah, I mean, I did this without thinking of that. That was just a trick I was giving you guys.
That's something we teach our undergrads to do. You guys should be able to recognize patterns based on the person circumstances like without thinking about implications or future things you would do.
Like I identified the following patterns just like you guys did. We had a whole discussion about it. No one was talking about like what we might do with them.
You guys were just talking about the similarities you're seeing. So I would just do it based on the job statements that you have and the interviews that you did.
You'll be able to. Antonio.
Liana. Yeah, I have a follow-up question also. If you go back to the clusters.
So, and maybe you said that I just didn't, didn't understand it correctly, but, to me, like these 3 cluster, they'll talk about the same product, which is a comfortable mattress.
And it's almost seems like the only difference is the marketing message that I'm gonna put on my landing page or the target customers I'm gonna address.
Huh.
But the product is the same. So why would you what would we call it people in this case? Because it's the same product.
Well, I wanna challenge that though, cause is the product the same? Because I see 3 different products here.
Yeah.
People People have different reasons to buy. I think And what was the Neil said that earlier? Okay.
Yeah, and the different reasons to buy directly inform what the product should be. So I see, so you understand the difference in the marketing for these 3?
Antonio, right? So for the product. Yeah.
Do you understand the marketing? Yeah, and I don't understand the marketing, but, ultimately the products.
Is the same, isn't it? I mean, is it comfortable? No.
Well. Is it though because it sounds like cluster one is very important. It's very important to him for it to be comfortable.
Cluster 2, what were their problems? If you go back to 5 and 7, number 5, he's tossing and turning.
So it sounds like he has an issue. Number 7, he's snoring, which is also an issue.
I would probably call it a medical issue. I want to update our sleeping arrangements specifically to stop the issue.
Does that sound like just a comfortable mattress? Because to me that sounds like, oh, if we want to cater to this group, we're going to come up with.
Movement isolation. We're gonna come up with like the incline mattress to stop the snoring.
Like I can think of a lot of product implications that could come from cluster 2 that would be different than cluster one.
Then cluster 3 outside of it being a mattress cluster 3 is so much more about how you're buying the mattress.
So like Bob said, why they buy? So yeah, they want a comfortable mattress, but their main thing is that they wanted to fit the requirements of the space and for it to be quick and easy.
If you remember number 2 said, I don't want to be bothered with going and trying it out or having to pick it up.
So number 3 is a lot more about how to buy it. So I can imagine a product for number 3 could be the same literal matches as number one, but you would need to change your product.
Maybe you can see the mattress in the space. Maybe you do delivery to the house. Like maybe you're one of the only matches companies that like brings it straight there within a few days.
Doing direct to consumer online. Do you see how like the product could change in many different ways based on the clusters?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Thank you.
Cool. Dan?
So with the, statements, we almost like summarize, like, the series of interview in like, multiple clusters.
Should we try to summarize, the forces in one? D to see the bar.
Or
Yeah. And not even a diagram. I want like a write up. So I'm gonna show you some examples, but and I'll post some examples later because we're running out of time, but like basically each cluster should just be one page.
Do you mean the jobs to be done statement? Right the forces just give one liner like really quick.
This is supposed to be an aggregation so you will have all the evidence on the back end but I want you to summarize it and synthesize it into one document.
So basically cluster summarized, with the, with the all the ingredients, right? Forces.
Right here. So for each job suite on statements, take cluster one, I would have these 4 bullet points.
To support cluster one and then I would do it again with clusters 2 and 3. Thank you for clarifying.
Got it.
That's a great question. Okay, Snow.
It's a little bit, I mean, It's not about the cluster, but so some of our, interviewees taking the cluster as they can be clustered as a yeah consultancy.
Cool for their own customers so they can use our product to fulfill their end customers. In that case, do we need to reach out to the end customers?
It's a little bit tricky for me. How I can
Yeah.
I think we'll have to work with you on a 1 on one basis. If you've identified a second group of stakeholders, might I would lean toward yes but I want to know more about your situation so just for the sake of time.
Okay, and we'll dive into it with you.
Okay, thanks.
Cool. Ali, I'm gonna hunt your question until the end just so I can show you guys examples before we run out of time, but I'll stay on to answer question.
So let's look at some why before the Wise. Just so you guys know, this is extremely confidential.
Jake has asked us not to share this outside of programs. So make sure that you keep this. Between us, but this is Jake's wide before the line.
So before why they buy, there's why they shop. And he gives a preamble up from Jason Fried's article, which I'll show you. But these are the clusters Jake came up with.
Remember, this is like Duolingo for cooking. He's talking about people who have signed up for cooking apps.
Or signed up for his specifically and these are what he came up with. So one is there's got to be a better way to spend my time.
So this is people feeling incompetent. This is people scrolling on TikTok watching reality TV.
They are fearful. They're wandering their time when they're free, but they don't know what to do.
The more nights that pass, the more useless they feel. They're spending time with content instead of on themselves.
Number 2, I don't offer enough to the people I care about. This is someone who feels like they're a taker and not a giver.
They feel like a significant other cooks for them every night or their friends constantly host them over for dinner and they never give back.
So they worry that it might build to a breaking point. And they need to gain a skill to be able to care for their loved ones the way that they care about this person.
Number 3, I need to stop eating bad food. This is people who just keep ordering uber eats.
They, you know, have microwave food, fast food, people who just aren't able to get like healthy food on demand if they're not cooking it themselves and it's a lack of agency and they just it comes on variable because they feel so bad about themselves.
It feels so unhealthy. Maybe it's resulted in some health issues and they know I've eaten great food before when I cook it tastes terrible and so they need something that gets a great meal in front of them, but also taste good.
Number 4, how can I get my friends to hang out with me? So this one it's different than the not giving back.
Those people think that their friends are and together are gonna like break up with them. This person is I'm maybe I moved to a new city.
Maybe I have some friends but I don't hang up with them enough. I wanna learn to cook so that I can have a thriving social life.
These are usually people who recently graduated from college and are now experiencing a loss of friendship where it was like bubbling and blooming all the time.
They're in their social life before and now things are different. So maybe if I start cooking, loneliness will turn into independence.
Maybe my friends will make the trip across. Town to try new recipes. So these are the 4 that Jake.
Like sectioned off and identified and they ended up going after There's got to be a better way to spend my time.
And the people that are eating bad food because that's where the biggest energy was. So this one was an extreme push.
People are eating terrible food. They feel terrible about themselves. Number one had the most people and they had a really great CMO, they still do, and they know that if they marketed to these people that are like just scrolling on TikTok, they would be able to capture that.
So those were the 2 reasons they chose one in 3. They didn't Get rid of 2 and 4.
They just went after one and 3 during tech stars. I'm sure they've looked back around to try and capture more if you guys remember the diffusion of innovation curve so you can always expand your niche but they started with one in 3.
And they were able to do really well. So they used a lot of marketing to to capture these people that are spending their night scrolling by using words that the interviewees in this cluster spoke.
So when you speak the customer's language, it resonates and it worked because a lot more people started converting onto their app.
And then for number 3, they directly changed the product. As a result of the things that these people said.
So instead of having a bunch of like dessert SPs and things like that, they focus on the fundamentals.
How do I cook good food that tastes good? Let's teach you. So they taught them about seasoning.
They taught them about searing things that make the food taste really good without adding a whole lot of extra calories.
The second thing I want to show you guys before we wrap is Jason Freed's article and I'm gonna follow up with all of this stuff.
But lastly, this is what sparked it all. And they already gave you guys. Foreshadowing of this, but if you remember these little icons, the clusters that base camp came up with and then directly change their product and the pricing model as a result, we can't keep working like this.
This is people who have, have had something bad really happen, in their lives as a result of their work life being chaotic.
They don't know, they missed meetings, it feels overwhelming and they just feel like their hair is on fire.
The next one is we can't mess up like that again. This is the people that lost the client due to a miscommunication and not being organized.
As a team, they look at each other and they just say, we're not gonna survive if we if we mess up like that again.
Number 3, this project isn't getting off the ground. These are people that are trying and trying to make progress and is just not working and it gets a breaking point.
So rather than losing a client or feeling like their hair is on fire, they're annoyed that they're trying to make progress and it feels like they're dragging something through the mud.
And number 4, how am I going to pull this off? This is someone who has a new promotion, a new giant project, as you can see from the.
Icon here. And they just feel intimidated and they don't know what they're gonna do so they know they need to seek a new solution if they're gonna succeed here.
Yeah, I know.
And as you can see, none of these speak to the. Features or aspects of the product itself. Base camp.
Yeah.
This is about the people in their situations and their struggling moments and their needs. The features and functionality of base camp are implied in those needs.
Right? You can make the connection for why it's relevant.
I think you're muted. Lilian.
Lilian, you've been muted the last 15 s.
I'm sorry. I will follow up with the 2 things I just showed you as long as you keep, Jake's thing internal.
Just promise me that. And then I'll show you, Jason, for its article that I just shared along with some of my favorite examples of why Before the Wise from the past few cohorts, because we've had some really good ones.
So I'll show you guys those. The ones from the past few cohorts will include the evidence that I require to have that in the presentations.
And then you guys are gonna do this in person in week 5 or virtual if you're not coming.
And in the meantime, just keep doing your interviews. Think about how you want to synthesize in the end, start recognizing patterns.
And then Kate is available even though she has moved to Europe as of today. Available to have a lot of mentor sessions with you guys.
So still use here. She really wants to be involved as a resource as you guys are doing this. This is her favorite part.
So with that, thanks for all your participation. This was awesome. I'm gonna stay on for questions, but this is one of the most fruitful synthesis workshops I've ever had.
So I really appreciate it